---
title: Books
tags: journal
---

# **Books**

In the book [_I Will Teach You To Be Rich_](https://www.iwillteachyoutoberich.com/), [Ramit Sethi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ramit_Sethi) says something about how, for him, books are something he never hesitates to spend money on if he has even the slightest impulse for one, because the returns on investment are so immense. I don't have the book with me now and so can't quote it directly, but I believe he says something like:

> If even a single line from a book gives me a good idea, it was worth it.

I have had this experience with _many_ books in my life. It's often the case that a single line will change my whole way of thinking about a particular issue and I'll still be ruminating on it years later. Modifying his advice a bit can also save you a ton of money if you're willing to get slightly used but still perfectly readable books on [eBay](https://ebay.com), and wait a bit longer for them to arrive.

Books are absolutely, far and away, the greatest return on investment for any means of getting knowledge or wisdom into _your own head_. And having knowledge and wisdom in your own head instead of merely knowing the source of it in some reference, can be invaluable if it's the right knowledge.

_A little note on LLMs: our time is obsessed with the pursuit of the new and shiny in lieu of the tried and true. I see the sentiment expressed everywhere that X or Y is now dead or irrelevant. Most people should be less blase about this. Books have been the means of knowledge transfer for thousands of years. LLMs truly are an impressive new tool for getting work done if you use them cautiously and wisely. But they are no replacement for any form of knowledge which needs to go through \_you_ to be useful. What good is wisdom to you if it's hidden away in some LLM which hallucinates an interpretation anyway?\_

Below is a list of books and essays that have impacted me deeply:

---

## **History**

- _History_ by Ralph Waldo Emerson

### Ancient Greece

- _The Life of Greece_ by Will Durant

### Ancient Rome

- _Caesar and Christ_ by Will Durant
- _Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire_ by Edward Gibbon

### America

- _John Adams_ by David McCullough
- _Washington: A Life_ by Ron Chernow
- _Hamilton_ by Ron Chernow
- _Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power_ by Jon Meacham

### Russia

- _The Gulag Archipelago_ by Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn

### Medicine

- _Awakenings_ by Oliver Sacks

---

## **Biography**

- _Surely You’re Joking, Mr. Feynman!_ by Richard Feynman

---

## **Philosophy**

- _Self-Reliance_ by Ralph Waldo Emerson

### Politics

- _The Open Society and its Enemies_ by Karl Popper
- _Beauty_ by Roger Scruton

### Roman

- _Meditations_ by Marcus Aurelius
- _On the Shortness of Life_ by Seneca
- _On Friendship_ by Cicero

### Christian

- _A Confession_ by Lev Tolstoy
- _Fear and Trembling_ by Kierkegaard
- _Answer to Job_ by Carl Jung

### Cognition

- _Gödel, Escher, Bach_ by Douglas Hofstadter

### Morality

- _Beyond Good and Evil_ by Friedrich Nietzsche
- _Man’s Search for Meaning_ by Viktor Frankl
- _The Genealogy of Morals_ by Friedrich Nietzsche

---

## **Novels**

- _The Brothers Karamazov_ by Dostoevsky
- _Crime and Punishment_ by Fyodor Dostoevsky

## **Technology**

- _The Sovereign Individual_ by James Dale Davidson & William Rees-Mogg

### Bitcoin

- _Mastering the Lightning Network_ by Andreas Antonopoulos
- _Programming Bitcoin_ by Jimmy Song
- _Mastering Bitcoin_ by Andreas Antonopoulos

### Privacy

- _Extreme Privacy_ by Michael Bazzell

## **Psychology**

- _Modern Man in Search of a Soul_ by Carl Jung
